>> Mike North: The next thing
we're gonna talk about is
building great documents
in Visual Studio Code.
One of the great strengths of the way
markdown is handled in Visual Studio Code
is it matches really nicely with
the way GitHub handles markdown.
So what I'm gonna show you here,
this is sort of a cheat sheet for
all of the different things you can do
in the body of a GitHub issue that you
would create.
Or pull request that you'd open or
just markdown files that you
would check into your project.
So, the first thing I wanna show you or
just gonna go and
look at the same project on GitHub.
Oops, sorry it's over here.
So when we just look at
a folder like docs/here.
Here are the files in this folder.
If you have a readme markdown file below,
that will be shown below.
So think of it as almost like
the same way like if index.html
will be shown if you want to view
a set of like static web assets.
And you just go to
a particular folder path.
That is sort of the implied thing
that you end up looking at.
And so even as we drill through this,
like we can see that there are other
README's inside each of these folders.
So it's kind of nice to leave,
especially if you have a large team and
you have certain conventions that apply
within a particular area of your code.
Just create a readme within
that folder structure.
It doesn't just have to be the one
read e for the whole project.
But this can serve as
a good living document
that is versioned along with your code.
If these practices change over time
it's really easy to look at the history,
just like you would with code,
and to see how this has evolved.
So we're gonna look at
all of these different
markdown tricks that you can use.
The way you create images with
markdown is pretty simple.
You begin with an exclamation mark, and
then within square brackets you
have the name of this image.
And that's used to
populate the alt attribute
of the image tag that we're
seeing rendered below.
And then you can have a path to a file
here, that can be a relative path.
So this one happens to be
checked into this project.
It doesn't have to be something
that's hosted in the CDN somewhere,
it's just, it is another file and
we can refer to it that way.
So, here is the way that ends up looking,
just so you can understand the size of it,
it's about the full
height of my editor here.
So that's great but
it's kind of limiting because we
have to size our images just right.
So if we wanted to deviate from that and
customize things a little bit.
Turns out you can also
use an image tag as well.
And this gives us the ability to
use almost all of the attributes
available on image tags.
You can't use things like source sets,
which are typically for
handling a retina version of an image,
an irregular version of an image.
That's a little bit too involved and
complicated.
But we can specify a height.
There's an align attribute and
think of that almost as it is a float but
it does even more things
than a float does.
And we've got vpace and hspace and
think of those as horizontal and
vertical margin around this image.
So, here's what we end up
with with this mark up above.
You can see we begin with something
that is floated to the right.
And just like when we use like
a CSS float, it doesn't, when
you float something it doesn't really,
it ends up having no height, right.
So that's what lets us float to the right,
and then we can put something to the left.
And these end up sort of being
horizontally centered on each other.
The reason this is not aligned up with the
top edge here is because we have got this
vspace of 20.
So that is what is making
it come down like this.
When working with GitHub and this is where
GitHub and VSCode split a little bit,
it likes to wrap everything on
a particular line with the paragraph tag.
And so you'll see,
like if you have a bunch of images,
if we wrote this for example,
right and sent it up to GitHub.
Sorry, if we had a couple images like
this, right, without floating them,
like one two three,
VS code would show them as inline images.
Whereas GitHub would wrap each
of them in a paragraph tag.
The consequence for you is you would
see three images, one on each line.
On GitHub, whereas here, you would see
them next to each other on the same line.
But this here, what we're looking at,
that works,
>> Mike North: There it is,
that works on GitHub as well.
Let me just get my zoom right.
So there's our little
floater to the right thing.
>> Mike North: So this align attribute
works on a variety of elements,
paragraph tags are a common thing to use.
Because if you provide one GitHub
will not automatically wrap stuff
in a paragraph tag for you.
So that's what let's us do something
like this, where we've got left,
right and center.
So if you want to sort of,
if you looked at the Readme for
this project you see we've got a little
image centered and at the top.
And we've got our build status tags and
things centered right below it.
This is how we're able to do that.
You can do this in a poll request or
an issue.
Anywhere where you're using
markdown syntax this is important.
>> Mike North: So what I'm showing you
here is we have align top and bottom.
And keep in mind we're dealing with
sort of a single like horizontal line
of content here.
But what we can do is use the top and
bottom align to take these
two images to the left and
float one like vertically align one up and
vertically align the other down.
So the only way we're allowed
to see this is cuz we have
a larger image that sort of defines the
height of this paragraph tag, if you will.
And that gives us the ability
to take smaller things and
choose where we would like to align them.
>> Mike North: Hopefully we've
all used unordered lists before,
this is one the one of the first things
you'll typically learn as you'll start
working with MarkDown.
So that will end up rendering like this.
We have ordered list as well and
you will note here so
we've got again the pattern is the Mark Up
and then how it's rendered is below it.
So you;ll note that I have got 111.
You could do one, two,
three if you really wanted to.
However, the benefit here is if we added
something into the middle of the list,
we would not have to go through and
explicitly renumber everything ourselves.
It'll take care of incrementing
that number as we go along.
One of the annoying things about
this kind of list is you can't
use this syntax up here and
get nested ordered lists.
We can fall back to regular HTML and
do something similar though.
But we've got ol for
ordered list, list items and
then we've got nested
ordered list in the side.
And we end up getting something
that looks kind of like an outline.
So this type attribute
is what gives us that.
If you were making a table of contents or
something where you wanted
to refer to like section A,
subsection one, something like that,
this would be a great way to do it.
>> Mike North: So I learned about this
preparing for the course, there's
something called description lists,
I've never actually used this before.
But these come in pairs where
you've got a description, well,
you've had a title and a description.
And it'll render itself
as sort of the title and
then it'll indent the description.
I'll show you how this looks on GitHub.
>> Mike North: Basically like that.
That is how it ends up being rendered.
So kind of nice if you had
maybe your contact information.
You can have name and
then a couple of things below it,
without having to deal with bullets or
something like that.
This is my favorite here.
This, you will.
You will look like
a Mark Down wizard to people
if you start doing this in pole requests.
So, is there anyone ever reported
an issue where you've had to like
paste some log output like.
Mike, I'm having trouble
installing this project,
here is the error message I'm seeing and
you paste the big thing.
And this of course for
everyone reading this Issue.
They're gonna have to scroll
through everyone's log output and
like, other people will come comment on it
and say no, I get this huge log instead.
And someone else will say,
no I get this mega log output.
And before long it's like eight
pages that's a mile long.
So we can use detail summary here.
What ends up happening is, we get
a little collapsed element here, and
we can open it up.
And you see we were able to
use a Markdown inside of it.
This is a code block with
typescript syntax highlighting,
and you see that we can keep
that collapsed in here.
So this is a nice way to let people
sort of optionally open things up, or
I've at times used this for quizzes.
Where you have the question and
then you can open that up and see answer,
but the use has to click to open it up.
So this stands out because it's a little
bit of interactivity in your documents.
If you are doing this, keep in mind that
in order to transition from the HTML
world Into back into the Markdown world
here you want to have an empty new line.
Otherwise it will be seen as just
HTML text that isn't back text.
I can show you what that will
look like if we go down here.
If I were to delete that.
>> Mike North: Yeah, see,
that is less impressive there.
It's just regarding this as regular text.
So just make sure that you have
that new line in there and
it should work out, just like that.
And by the way, the way I'm able to
get this little line here like this,
that is a block quote.
So if we look at the Markdown here
that's going on behind the scenes.
I'm just using these to basically
shift everything in and
to give myself a nice little space.
So, we can really easily see like
this is code and this is the answer.
So, detail summary, use it anytime you're
pasting a giant like log output and
people will open it up if they care and
they won't, if they don't.
And of course, me for
something absolutely amazing.
That is summary that's appearing here.
And then finally,
you can use tables in Markdown and
you just have to basically, like this
is the Ascii art version of the table.
Be careful, because if you get
even one row incorrect here,
I'll show you what happens.
>> Mike North: It basically, let's see
if we can screw it up a different way.
Seems more tolerant than I remember.
What if we do that?
>> Mike North: I am surprised that it's,
it's keeping up here.
I would not necessarily trust all.
I'll Markdown renderers to
handle this gracefully.
But you can see these tables
sort of basically unravel into
the row syntax again.
And you just see a bunch of pipes and
dashes and stuff and it wouldn't
understand that it should create a table
tag and table rows and table columns.
Wow, more robust than I thought
maybe I have to save it.
Let's see.
Now it actually is handling it.
Bravo, code team.
So, those are my Markdown tips there.
Now, in terms of, if you had to just
remember one, remember details summary.
Just remember that and
if you remember two, align.
>> Mike North: So what I suggest you do,
one of the benefits of having,
these slides as code within this project.
Take notes as we go along and
commit those notes to yourself as part
of these like exercise solutions.
So we'll be going through and
you can use some of these like tips here
to style your notes in some rich way.
But just like with the key bindings,
as you start to like just incorporate
a few things to start, don't try to
learn it all at once, it won't stick.
It never does.
But just pick one or
two or three things and
try to focus on making use of that thing.
And once it becomes internalized,
you will know when you've internalized it,
you don't have to think about it anymore.
And then you can move on to the next one